hi everyone thanks for joining me today
so today I am going to make my southern
style baked macaroni and cheese it's
cheesy creamy a little bit buttery and
it's absolutely delicious so if you want
to watch me make it please stay tuned
okay guys I'm going to get started and
this is going to be a small serving but
you can adjust the amount if you want to
make a bigger tray of macaroni this is
just elbow macaroni I'm going to be
using that this is the small elbow
macaroni this is some cheddar cheese
this is not sharp I'm using a milder
blend of cheese for this recipe and I
usually use just regular cheddar cheese
I don't use sharp or extra sharp this is
the mozzarella going to be using a
little bit of that this is about a cup
and this is just a little under a cup we
don't need a lot of this going to be
using some half-and-half when using that
this is what we're going to be using to
make our cheese sauce this is two cups
of cheddar cheese right here I'm going
to be using these two items in the
measuring cup want to make that fabulous
cheese sauce that I'd like to make and
then make the baked macaroni and cheese
I'm going to be using a little I can't
believe it's not butter I like this one
because it's very creamy tasting has a
slight sweetness to it not it's not
sweet does make the dish sweet but it's
just a beautiful alternative to butter
if you want to use butter you can I'm
not going to go and use this usually
this recipe I won't say usually
sometimes this recipe calls for an eggs
I won't be using that today you don't
have to use egg with this recipe so
that's it for the ingredients of course
I got my serving bowl right here in the
back from my cousin Diane she gave me
her whole collection of Corningware
bakeware I'm so glad to have it I love
using it for to be baking the macaroni
and cheese in that I I will be using a
nonstick cooking spray I'll show you
that as I go along and of course of
course
be using a mixing spoon to make the
cheese sauce so right now on the stove I
have the water boiling for the pasta so
I'm going to go show you how I make the
cheese sauce
for the baked macaroni and cheese okay
so right now I have my oven on it's
heating at 350 degrees that's the
temperature you want to cook your baked
macaroni and cheese and I'm going to get
started now with the sauce first I'm
going to heat up two cups of
half-and-half you can use heavy cream
you can use regular milk if you like you
can use evaporated milk or canned milk
you can use any milk that you like I
think you should avoid low-fat milk
because it's not going to have enough of
the milk fat to keep the dish creamy so
right now I'm just going to let this get
hot and I'm going to stir stir this is a
dish that must be stirred this part of
your recipe your cream sauce you have to
make sure that you stay in the kitchen
just to keep stirring it so that it
could remain creamy and smooth okay guys
so this half-and-half is nice and high
let it heat for about four to five
minutes
on a very very low flame you don't want
to burn the milk or scorch it you just
want it to get nice and hot so right now
I'm going to add two cups of cheddar
cheese I'm going to add a little at a
time so I want it to melt slowly I want
it to melt with them a lot of cheese in
the pot so I'm going to continue
stirring until we see the cheese
dissolve well until we see the
half-and-half start to change I'll just
color just a little bit so now it's good
to keep adding more cheese until it's
all in the pot and you want to keep
stirring that don't let anything stick
to your pot don't let your cream start
to stick or your cheese you just got you
have to keep stirring this cheese sauce
so it could come out really just nice
and she
see and not burnt and make sure you keep
your flame on very low but right now
while the cheese is melting in the half
and a half I'm going to add the pasta to
the boiling water and as you can see how
it's coming along if melting very nicely
all this cheese is going to be dissolved
into the cream will all be one texture
all right this is what it looks like
it's almost ready I would continue
stirring this maybe for about another
three minutes just to let you all know
that this is the same type of cheese
sauce that you can use on your baked
potatoes which you have to get a nice
and creamy nice and smooth you can also
use it on your broccoli
if you blanch some broccoli you can use
this cheese sauce also on your broccoli
and other additions that you would like
to add cheese a cheese sauce too so this
is coming out really really nicely and
our pasta is almost done and then I'm
going to show you after you make your
cheese sauce which in my opinion is
where you put in most of your work I'm
going to show you how easy it is beyond
this okay guys so I've drained my pasta
and right now I'm going to just take
this dick up I can't believe it's not
books butters this is really margarine
I'm going to use maybe like a quarter of
this stick just to blend in the macaroni
so I would say I'm going to use about
that much and the macaroni I just want
deck give the macaroni a little extra
flavor so it's just trying to give the
macaroni just a little bit of extra
buttery flavor not a lot and as you can
see again this is a small serving I'm
making and honestly I think I've
probably made too much of the cheese
sauce but that's okay it does keep very
well and again like I said you can use
it on baked potatoes you can use it on
french fries if you like
you can drizzle a little bit of it on
your vegetables like your broccoli and
your string beans if you wanted to it's
really good on vegetables that cheese
sauce so I'm just going to continue
blending this butter in or this
margarine in until it's all melted so
right now I'm going to take some of our
cheese sauce and I'm going to put it in
the macaroni not a lot maybe like half
let this end up dish and I'm going to
bake this between 20 and 35 minutes
okay guys so I've got the macaroni and
cheese in the dish I did lightly spray
my dish with the Wilton's easy-bake you
can use this for baking cakes and
cupcakes and you can also use it for
baking your food place it nicely so you
have a nice presentation when it's done
so very quickly I'm going to put a
little bit of the lips or elegies on top
now I'm going to be using a little bit
more of the cheddar cheese put that on
top
also to give a little punch of flavor
I'm going to be adding some parmesan
this is the freshly shredded cheese I'm
going to be using this I have a little
bit left I'm going to just drink a
little bit on top give it that three
cheese flavor you can omit this part of
the cheese if you want or you can add
different cheeses sometimes I use spicy
Jack cheese to top it with
you
okay guys here it is this is the
finished product it looks absolutely
delicious and that this recipe again
like I said this is really hot this was
really really easy to make you saw me
make it it's very quick it's tasty yeah
let me just go inside let's just see
what that looks like it's nice and
crusty on the top just way we like it
you can get it a little bit more Brown
if you want it that's always up to you
but this is what it looks like nice and
cheesy buttery
southern style baked macaroni and cheese
I'm going to take it just a little bit
in this dish
moist ahead taste of vision so that you
can actually taste this baked macaroni
it is so cheesy guys look at that and
that's just the mozzarella cheese that I
put on top all right Bon Appetit guys
thanks so much for joining me
I appreciate it if you have any
questions about this baked macaroni and
cheese dish just leave it in the comment
section below and I'd be very happy to
get back to you as soon as I can and now
if you like this dish please thumbs up
and please subscribe I really would
appreciate it thank you so much for
joining me today guys take care now
bye-bye